Conclusion (#11)
greenelab/generalization-manuscript: content/02.main-text.md

This highlights a potential weakness of using TCGA's carcinoma-dominant pan-cancer data as a training set for a broad range of tasks, for instance in foundation models which are becoming feasible for some genomics applications [@arxiv:2306.15794; @doi:10.1101/2023.04.30.538439; @doi:10.1101/2023.05.29.542705].
One caveat of our analysis is that each cancer type is included in the training data or held out for a different subset of genes, so it is difficult to detangle gene-specific effects (some mutations have less distinguishable functional effects on gene expression than others) from cancer type-specific effects (some cancer types are less similar to each other than others) on prediction performance using our experimental design.

## Conclusion

> Without directly evaluating model generalization, it is tempting to assume that simpler models will generalize better than more complex ones, and previous studies and sets of guidelines suggest this rule of thumb.

Reviewer: You'll need to add references for previous studies and sets of guidelines.

> However, we do not observe strong evidence that simpler models generalize more effectively than more complex ones with similar cross-validation performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, we do not observe strong evidence that simpler models inherently generalize more effectively than more complex ones.
```

> We emphasize that there may be other reasons to train small models, or to look for the best model of a certain size/sparsity, such as biomarker interpretability or assay cost.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There may be other reasons to train small models or to look for the best model of a certain size/sparsity, such as biomarker interpretability or assay cost.
```

> This underscores the importance of defining clear goals for each analysis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our results underscore the importance of defining clear goals for each analysis.
```

> If the goal of a particular machine learning model is to achieve generalization across contexts or datasets, we recommend directly evaluating generalization when possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the goal is to achieve generalization across contexts or datasets, whenever possible we recommend directly evaluating generalization.
```

> When it is not feasible, based on our results, we recommend choosing the model that performs the best on unseen data via cross-validation or a holdout dataset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When it is not feasible, we recommend choosing the model that performs the best on unseen data via cross-validation or a holdout dataset.
```
